adding security api reference #887 (#7296)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _api-reference/security-apis.md

---
layout: default
title: Security APIs
nav_order: 84
---

# Security APIs

> Security APIs provide information which can be very useful in troubleshooting connection issues and overall configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Security APIs provide information that can be very useful in troubleshooting connection and configuration issues.
```

API | Method | Description
:--- | :--- | :---

> `/_plugins/_security/whoami` | GET/POST | Returns basic details about the logged in user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`/_plugins/_security/whoami` | GET/POST | Returns basic details about the logged-in user.
```

`/_opendistro/_security/sslinfo` | GET | Returns details about the SSL connection when using certificate authentication.

> `/_plugins/_security/api/permissionsinfo` | GET | Returns permission details for the logged in user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`/_plugins/_security/api/permissionsinfo` | GET | Returns permission details for the logged-in user.
```

> `/_plugins/_security/authinfo` | GET/POST | Returns the backend roles and OpenSearch roles mapped to the logged in user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`/_plugins/_security/authinfo` | GET/POST | Returns the backend roles and OpenSearch roles mapped to the logged-in user.
```

> `/_plugins/_security/api/ssl/certs` | GET | Displays details and expiration of the certificates used in OpenSearch HTTP and transport communication layers. Can only be called with by users with the `superadmin` certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`/_plugins/_security/api/ssl/certs` | GET | Displays the details and expiration dates of the certificates used on the OpenSearch HTTP and transport communication layers. Can only be called by users with the `superadmin` certificate.
```

> `/_plugins/_security/api/ssl/transport/reloadcerts` | PUT | Reload the certificates on the `transport` layer. For more information, see [Reload TLS certificates on the transport layer]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#reload-tls-certificates-on-the-transport-layer).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`/_plugins/_security/api/ssl/transport/reloadcerts` | PUT | Reloads the certificates on the `transport` layer. For more information, see [Reload TLS certificates on the transport layer]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#reload-tls-certificates-on-the-transport-layer).
```

> `/_plugins/_security/api/ssl/http/reloadcerts` | PUT | Reload the certificates on the `http` layer. For more information, see [Reload TLS certificates on the http layer]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#reload-tls-certificates-on-the-http-layer).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`/_plugins/_security/api/ssl/http/reloadcerts` | PUT | Reloads the certificates on the `http` layer. For more information, see [Reload TLS certificates on the http layer]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#reload-tls-certificates-on-the-http-layer).
```
